 Report Analysis
   
The entire campaign period had 4 dates(2 start dates and 2 end dates) which covered the period of from 1st January 2018 – 12th November 2020 with a total of 516 campaigns across multiple platforms with a total campaign spend of £1.22billion with a target of £2.34billion ranging from both traditional and digital media channels.
At the beginning of the campaign the dataset clearly showed the total amount spent by each advertising platform with TV and OOH taking the bulk of the campaign budget with over  £316,000 and £116,000 respectively, this can be attributed to the capital intensive and huge reach both platforms provide for any brand.
By the end of Q2 the total campaign media spend dropped by 12% and 5% at the end of Q4 which affected the total spend of other platforms, this may be attributed to the test and learn phase on the brand, as it awaits to see how the public perceives its product offerings as well as seasonal factors although  the Cinema spend increased by over 48.5% significantly in Q2
Spend improved by 15% in Q1 and Q3 of 2019 and 2020 as the brand is believed to have got a good share of voice and needed for retargeting and gaining the lost momentum it had in Q1 and Q2 of 2018.
There was a significant increase of 24% in advertising spend on TV from the month of  May 2018 till May 2019 before a dip in spend, but continued increasing throughout the year 2020,this cannot be said of Cinemas, Digital display and Video that maintained a specific range of advertising spend even during the festive season.
There was  a positive correlation between total digital media spend and average digital media spend in the month of February, September and November 2020,and April and July on the  Linkedin social media channel of £4.3million with a negative correlation in the month of December and March of 2019 and 2018 for   respectively  for radio and print channels.Also,BM1475 and BM 1476 were observed to be the top 2 record number as they appeared tops among all the advertising channels in this dataset.

Post Campaign Analysis

   It was observed that spend is relatively stable with periodic spikes likely tied to major campaign launches or seasonal promotions with the largest spike in Oct 2018(£60m),August 2019(£42m) and towards the final week of February 2020(£5m) which could indicate a large-scale campaign or budget-heavy launch phase. It also indicates that some campaigns sustain media investment after their formal end date possibly for retargeting, reminders, or late media placements. This is as a result of several causes such as Strategic extension, Spillover effects or delays in media execution as campaigns usually start with slightly more consistent media effort, while post-end spending is more volatile.
Identification number such as BM1475, BM1498, BM1476, BM1517, BM1520 were highlighted as the specific campaigns behind the spike post 7days with media channels such as TV, VOD and digital audio used in this high spend periods. A further breakdown shows that in Oct 2018 there was an 25% increase compared to the previous month.

Recommendations

Fix the midquarter drop in advertising spend by introducing a limited time offer or new products to counteract the slump during those times. Based on  the current trends, of the reduction in the total campaign budget, the brand might likely take a loss in its brand share  in the print media, VOD and social media channels in the next quarter of the following year even as the narrative arc drops in that channel unless something innovative comes up which the brand might want to leverage these specific channels for .The organisation should consider other forms of advertising like the use of affiliates and influencers to support some platforms when they dip seasonally this will act as an halo effect on the success of other platforms because of the cultlike followership influencers have over their followers. Adoption of a retargeting strategy by identifying lookalike customers and looking to proffer solution to their pain points or concerns around the product features.

Conclusion

My review identified a strong foundation for growth, as well as operational vulnerabilities and untapped potential. Targeted initiatives will help stabilize seasonal performance, diversify of the customer base, and drive accelerated growth toward full target achievement
